# PLSGSA
PLS-based Gene Subset Augmentation and Identification of Gene Subsets Specific to Tumors
==================================
In many fields such as medicine and biology, real-world data often has insufficient labels, yielding high-dimensional datasets with small sample sizes. Identifying genes that are specifically expressed between tumor disease states and their functions is an important task in the study of tumor disease pathogenesis. In the actual biological genetic process, complex gene-phenotype and gene-gene interactions are ubiquitously present. Therefore, a more appropriate and accurate analysis method needs to simultaneously consider the gene-phenotype and gene-gene correlations and their interactions, and allow screening for genes with weak major effects but strong interactive effects. In addition, the traditional gene selection methods focus on obtaining a more stable gene subset with stronger predictive ability. Obviously, the resultant single gene subset is not usually sufficient to gain insights into the entire complex genetic mechanisms. To address these high-dimensional, small sample size challenges, a gene subset augmentation strategy is proposed in this paper. First, different perturbation mechanisms are introduced, distinct gene subsets can be generated via multi-perturbation integration despite limited samples. Second, we develop a partial least squares-based algorithm utilizing multiple feature measurements to identify differentially expressed genes, including those with weak signals. Finally, we construct gene networks from the obtained subsets to discover regulatory patterns and perform association analysis to explore gene associations. Our algorithms can identify differentially expressed genes as well as genes with a weakly differentially expressed signal. Meanwhile, it can identify a series of different gene subsets that are small in size but strong in overall discriminative power. In contrast to the conventional method that can only obtain a single specific gene subset, our proposed algorithm can identify a series of different gene subsets and their weakly differentially expressed genes, which helps to elucidate the molecular characteristics of tumor diseases and specific expression patterns of tumor genes.
